We're gonna go back to our pointers.go
file and talk a little bit more about how
to fix the behavior we saw in
our describe group function,
where we weren't able to modify
that variable in a permanent way.
And I comment out our current logic
real quick, all of the function main
Move down to a couple
different examples down here.
So in our main function line 40, We're
establishing that a variable name
is set to the value of Elvis.
We're calling changeName,
which accepts a name as a string,
and then we're printing
that to the console.
In our changeName function, we are passing
in one argument, which is a string, and
simply modifying that variable.
So if it starts out lowercase,
we want it to end up uppercase.
If we run this now, you'll see that even
though we're calling strings.ToUpper
on line 37, that variable is still
coming back with just the capital E.
Nothing else has been modified.
And so this is the demonstration
once again of how in Go,
we are passing a variable by its value,
not necessarily its memory location.
Cool.
So as we just recently talked about,
if we know we wanna modify the address
location itself,
I'm gonna start with my change name here.
I don't just want the copy of the value,
I want the actual address.
And so the symbol for
that was a for address.
So I'm gonna change name
instead of just Elvis.
Go find me that address and
pass that to our function instead.
If I were to save and run it just as is,
we're gonna get an error.
We're saying like, hey, you can't pass
a function it's expecting a normal string.
What turns out to be the address of
that variable where it lives in memory.
And so you recall if we're
talking about a type name, and
we put the asterisk before the type name,
we are telling Go that we expect the type
of this variable to be a pointer,
to be an address.
So you change that to be a star.
Cool, and now you'll see that our
error has changed to line 21, sorry,
line 37, which is here we're saying
strings.to upper, and we've got this n.
But now we're trying to call to upper
on an address on that like weird,
convoluted series of data.
So in order to change that, we need to
dereference it and be like, okay, cool.
I know you gave me an address, but
the thing I really wanna modify is
the actual value that lives here.
So I'm going to refer to that
variable using the asterisks so
I could actually get that value back.
Now, you notice when we run this again,
our value has been permanently
changed to capital Elvis.
And so
this is a super interesting aspect of go.
And if you think about how you pass
variables around in an application, right
now we're talking about a single string,
which doesn't take up a lot of space.
It's not a big deal.
But there are times when the actual data
you're passing around is a huge amount of
information.
It's like a whole section from a database.
You made a query and you're passing
along an entire JSON response or
something like that.
And so whether or
not you're passing a copy of the value or
the actual memory location,
it can be very different in terms of how
expensive it is to pass
that information around.
For instance, if you have a huge amount of
data stored in location A in your memory,
giving around that address versus
passing around that whole chunk of data
is a little bit cheaper to
do in your application.
Let's look at one more example of how to
modify various pieces of information using
pointers.
I'm gonna create a new main
function down here to work from.
And we're gonna talk about pointers and
structs.
So let's say we have a struct,
that I wanna call Coordinates.
In my struct, I just have two coordinates.
I have an X and a Y.
Let's make them capitals.
And both of these are set to float64
types, like coordinates on the map.
Capital C, let's add a comment
to make sure Go linter is
happy, Longitude.
So first thing we wanna do here
is establish an actual instance
of our coordinates.
Set it up here.
Let's say var c = Coordinates.
Our X value is 10,
which is not a real latitude,
but let's go with it, and
Y which is set to 20.
When you are creating
an instance of a struct,
you need to wrap your
initial data in curly braces.
And make sure that your casing matches
because our attributes are both capitals.
We need those to be capital X and
capital Y.
So now we have an insistency of our
coordinates where we have an X value of 10
and a Y value of 20.
If we wanted to update what's
happening in our main function here,
let's set a variable
to pointerCoordinates.
Let's change that.
Let's say, coordinatesMemoryAddress
which is a verbose variable to demonstrate
what we're talking about here.
But the coordinatesMemoryAddress
is going to be set to,
The actual address
location of a variable c.
We haven't used it yet, so we're getting
yelled at, but that's just fine.
And then here we can say.
CoordinatesMemoryAddress.X.
If we wanted to modify the X value and
change it to 200.
If we print that to the console.
You'll see now we get this &220.
If I take out that ampersand on
the c line, there in line 53,
you'll notice that everything is
still actually modified permanently.
And that's because if we were to actually
try to get a little more verbose and
add the ampersand and the star sign and
while we're doing a strux.
Go give's us a little bit of
a loophole just with strux
where Go is going to assume you mean
the actual struct behind the scenes.
So without having to dereference it or
add that ampersand,
we are actually getting the address.
And the actual value in memory that we can
modify permanently without having to be
more explicit.